DEVELOPER BEST PRACTICES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a quick reference document for developer best practices when working on the 
Gradebook2 project.
\\
\\
h5. 1. Versioning
\\
We made a decision fairly early on in the development of Gradebook2 that it should be 
versioned independently of Sakai releases. The basic thinking is that functionality within 
the GB2 codebase is going to change at a different rate than the Sakai APIs themselves, and 
that institutions that deploy GB2 will need to track their GB2 version independently, so for 
example if an institution upgrades from Sakai 2.5.5 to 2.6.2, they can (in theory) 
stick with version 1.2.0 of GB2. Perhaps more importantly, if an institution is committed
to staying at a particular Sakai release for some period, it will not be forced
to upgrade the overall release simply to get new functionality included in a later
version of the GB2 code. 
\\
One major advantage of this is also that GB2 does not have to maintain maintenance branches.
Our recommendation is that in cases where a blocker bug exists in a particular version
of GB2, all institutions should upgrade to a version where that bug has been fixed.
\\
The major disadvantage is that we have to make the GB2 code build
against different versions of Sakai. Our current strategy for this is to make use of 
maven's profile functionality and to pass in different -P values for each build, for example
-Psakai2.6 to build against a 2.6 Sakai instance. 
\\
This still requires that the root pom.xml file be modified to change it's version (from 2.8-SNAPSHOT
to 2.6.3, for example), which is unfortunate. We would like to eliminate that step in the future. 


h5. 2. Pre-compiling GWT code
\\
Currently we are pre-compiling our GWT code in Eclipse to speed up the build process in deployment. 
This adds a fair amount of complexity to the process and has the major disadvantage that it's possible for
the developer to forget to compile his or her client code, and deploy a version that it incompatible with 
itself. We've recently upgraded the mvn build for the "client" module, so it would be straightforward to
change this strategy, but for the moment it's important to remember to click on the GWT Compile button
in Eclipse, wait for it to complete compilation, then run mvn clean install (at least) before checking in 
any changes that impact client code. *This is very important.*


